tgpt: add page (#12307)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/common/tgpt.md

# tgpt

> > A terminal-based AI chatbot without the need for API keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Talk to many AI chatbots without the need for API keys.
```
We generally avoid saying the program is terminal/CLI-based, it's rather better to empathisize when they are GUI-based. See [style guide#descriptions](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/blob/main/contributing-guides/style-guide.md#descriptions):

> ## Descriptions
[...] 
> - Avoid mentioning that the program is used on the command-line (e.g. use `Ripgrep is a recursive line-oriented search tool` instead of `Ripgrep is a recursive line-oriented CLI search tool`).

See [style guide#imperative-mood](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/blob/main/contributing-guides/style-guide.md#imperative-mood):

> ### Imperative Mood
> 
> - **All descriptions must be concise and phrased in the imperative mood.**
> - This also applies to all translations by default unless otherwise specified in the language-specific section below.
> - For example, when writing documentation for `cd`, a tool to check out and work on a specific directory in the Terminal or Command Prompt, **do not** write a lengthy description such as:
> 
> ```md
> > `cd` is a system tool, available in Windows, macOS, and Linux, to check out a specific directory to get things done in > the Command Prompt, Terminal, and PowerShell.
> ```
> 
> It should instead be simplified to make it easier for everyone to read:
> 
> ```md
> > Change the current working directory.
> ```

Feel free to reword it.

> Available providers: `openai`, `opengpts`, `koboldai`, `phind`, `llama2`, `blackboxai`.
> More information: <https://github.com/aandrew-me/tgpt>.

> - Prompt with default provider (GPT-3.5-turbo):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Interactvely chat with default provider (GPT-3.5-turbo):
```
IMO this is clearer

> `tgpt "{{prompt_string}}"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`tgpt "{{prompt}}"`
```
We usually don't specify strings as such when it's clear that they are strings

> - Start multi-line interactive mode:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Start [m]ulti-line interactive mode:
```

`tgpt --multiline`

> - Generate [i]mages and save to current directory:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Generate [i]mages and save them to the current directory:
```

> `tgpt --image "{{prompt_string}}"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`tgpt --image "{{prompt}}"`
```

> - Generate code using the default provider:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Generate [c]ode using the default provider:
```

> `tgpt --code "{{prompt_string}}"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`tgpt --code "{{prompt}}"`
```

> - Chat with a specific provider without animations [q]uitely:

Reviewer 3: typo
```suggestion
- Chat with a specific provider without animations [q]uietly:
```

> - Chat with a specific provider without animations [q]uietly:

Reviewer 3: This sounds as if "quietly" meant something more than "without animations".
```suggestion
- Chat with a specific provider [q]uietly (without animations):
```

Author: oh right, will update

`tgpt --provider phind --quiet --whole "prompt_string"`

> - Generate and execute shell commands using a specific provider (will be prompted for confirmation):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Generate and execute [s]hell commands using a specific provider (will be prompted for confirmation):
```

> - Generate and execute [s]hell commands using a specific provider (will be prompted for confirmation):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Generate and execute [s]hell commands using a specific provider (with a confirmation prompt):
```

> `tgpt --provider {{phind}} --shell "{{prompt_string}}"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`tgpt --provider {{llama2}} --shell "{{prompt}}"`
```
Just as a suggestion, we can use llama2 just to diversify the shown providers

> - Prompt with an API key, model, max-length, temperature, and  (required when using openai provider):
> 
> `tgpt --provider openai --key "sk-xxxx" --model "gpt-3.5-turbo" --max-length 10 --temperature 0.7 --top_p 0.9 "prompt_string"`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Prompt with an API key, model, max-length, temperature, and  (required when using `openai` provider):

`tgpt --provider openai --key "{{api_key}}" --model "{{gpt-3.5-turbo}}" --max-length {{10}} --temperature {{0.7}} --top_p {{0.9}} "{{prompt_string}}"`
```

> `tgpt --provider openai --key "{{api_key}}" --model "{{gpt-3.5-turbo}}" --max-length {{10}} --temperature {{0.7}} --top_p {{0.9}} "{{prompt_string}}"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`tgpt --provider openai --key "{{api_key}}" --model "{{gpt-3.5-turbo}}" --max-length {{10}} --temperature {{0.7}} --top_p {{0.9}} "{{prompt}}"`
```

- Feed a file as additional input pre-prompt:

> `cat example.go | tgpt --provider blackboxai "prompt_string"`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`cat {{path/to/file.ext}} | tgpt --provider {{blackboxai}} "{{prompt_string}}"`
```

> `cat {{path/to/file.ext}} | tgpt --provider {{blackboxai}} "{{prompt_string}}"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`tgpt --provider {{blackboxai}} "{{prompt}}" < {{path/to/file}}`
```
This is an [Useless Use of Cat (UUOC)](https://porkmail.org/era/unix/award#cat), which leaves to some slowdowns like an unnecessary process fork, the file being read by cat and by tgpt too. This gets worse the larger the file is.

Alternatively, you can change it to something like this:
```suggestion
`{{command } | }tgpt --provider {{blackboxai}} "{{prompt_string}}"
```

Or even:
```suggestion
`{{curl link}} | tgpt --provider {{blackboxai}} "{{prompt_string}}"`
```
This would require the description to change to something like "Use `stdin` as an additional input pre-prompt" or "Pipe a command as an additional input pre-prompt"

Also, we use ".ext" when specific(s) file extension(s) are expected. See [style guide#extensions](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/blob/main/contributing-guides/style-guide.md#extensions):
> ### Extensions
> 
> - If a particular extension is expected for the file, append it.
>   For example, `unrar x {{path/to/compressed.rar}}`.
> - In case a generic extension is needed, use `{{.ext}}`, but **only** if an extension is required.
>   For instance, in `find.md`'s example "Find files by extension" (`find {{path/to/root}} -name '{{*.ext}}'`)
>   using `{{*.ext}}` explains the command without being unnecessarily specific;
>   while in `wc -l {{path/to/file}}` using `{{path/to/file}}` (without extension) is sufficient.

Author: this is niceee. thank you for this!

also imo i think the "feed a file with input redirection" would be better to show since it is a specific and clear usecase rather than a general one. I also think that chatbots are more likely to used in that way (or atleast popular to be used in that way), showing `tgpt` is a good alternative for those paid AI chatbots that does the same thing.

will commit in a little while, thank you again!
